PART A

1. Define a Function in JavaScript

A function in JavaScript is a  block of code that performs a specific task.


2. What is a Function?

A function is a reusable block of code designed to carry out a particular operation.


3. Why are Functions Important in Programming?

Functions are important because they help reduce repetition, make code organized and break large programs into smaller parts.



2. Explain the Following Terms
a. Function Declaration

A function declaration is when a function is created using the function keyword with a name.


b. Function Expression

A function expression is when a function is stored inside a variable.


c. Arrow Function

An arrow function is a shorter way to write functions using " => ".


d. Anonymous Function

An anonymous function is a function without a name.


e. Parameters

Parameters are variables listed inside the function definition.


f. Arguments

Arguments are the values passed into a function when it is called.


g. Return Statement

The return statement sends a value back from a function.


h. Callback Function

A callback function is a function passed into another function as an argument.


i. Hoisting

Hoisting is JavaScript's behavior of moving function declarations to the top of the code before execution.


3. Differences
1. Function Declaration vs Function Expression

Function Declaration	          Function Expression
Defined with function name()	  Stored inside a variable
Hoisted	                          Not hoisted
Can be called before definition	  Cannot be called before definition


2. Regular Function vs Arrow Function

Regular Function	  Arrow Function
Uses function keyword	  Uses =>
Has its own this	  Does not have its own this
Longer syntax	          Shorter syntax

3. Parameters vs Arguments
Parameters	                        Arguments
Variables in function definition	Values passed when calling function


4. Difference between console.log() and return

console.log()	                  return
Displays output in the console	 Sends a value back from a function
Used for debugging	         Used to store or reuse results




PART B

1. Function to Add Two Numbers (Function Declaration)

function addNumbers(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}

console.log(addNumbers(2, 3));
console.log(addNumbers(5, 7));
console.log(addNumbers(10, 20));


2. Function to Multiply Two Numbers (Arrow Function)

const multiply = (a, b) => {
  return a * b;
};

console.log(multiply(2, 4));
console.log(multiply(5, 3));
console.log(multiply(6, 7));


3. Function to Subtract Two Numbers (Function Expression)

const subtract = function(a, b) {
  console.log(a - b);
};

subtract(10, 3);
subtract(20, 5);
subtract(15, 7);

4. Anonymous Function using setTimeout


setTimeout(function() {
  console.log("JavaScript is powerful!");
}, 2000);

